The following is a HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
CONSTITUTION:

11. ESTATE RULES
11.1. Subject to the provisions of this constitution and to any directions given by the
Association in general meeting and to any conditions imposed by the Council or the
developer or any other statutory body, the trustees may make rules, codes of conduct
and may vary or modify the same, in connection with:
11.1.1. the nature, architectural design and position of buildings, structures, installations
and equipment relating to any erf ensuring at all times that these rules comply to
the conditions of the design manual;
11.1.2. the nature, content and design of the gardens relating to any erf including the
establishment and maintenance of landscaping in these areas ensuring at all
times that these rules comply to the conditions of the design manual;
11.1.3. the nature of the common areas adjacent to any erf including the establishment
and maintenance of landscaping in these areas by the member concerned;
11.1.4. the installation, operation and maintenance of irrigation in the common areas
adjacent to any erf by the member concerned;
11.1.5. the determination or control of security measures;
11.1.6. the control of the building operations and the conduct of builders and
contractors;
11.1.7. the control of the number of residents permitted on any one erf;
11.1.8. the control and conduct of persons for the prevention of nuisance of any nature
to any resident;
11.1.9. the control and conduct of persons using the common areas;
11.1.10.the keeping of animals including the right to prohibit, limit, restrict and control
the keeping of animals;
11.1.11.the use of roads, infrastructure, services amenities and facilities in the common
areas including the right to charge a reasonable fee for the use of the amenities
and facilities;
11.1.12.the furtherance and promotion of any of the objects of the Association and for
the better management of the affairs of the Association and for the
advancement and protection of the interests of the members and residents;
11.1.13.the use of the property.
11.2. For the enforcement of any rules or any of the provisions of this constitution generally
the trustees or the manager may:
11.2.1. give notice to the member concerned to remedy any breach within such period
as they may determine;
11.2.2. take or cause to be taken such action as they deem fit to remedy the breach of
which the member concerned may be guilty and debit the cost thereof, which
shall be a debt due to the Association, to his levy account, and which shall be
payable as part of his levy on the first day of the following month; and
11.2.3. impose a fine on the member concerned which amount shall be a debt due to
the Association, shall be debited to his levy account and shall be payable as part
of his levy on the first day of the following month.
11.3. Should the trustees or manager institute legal proceedings against any member or
resident for the enforcement of any of the rights of the Association in terms hereof,
the Association shall be entitled to recover all legal costs so incurred from the member
concerned, calculated as between attorney and client, including tracing fees and
collection commission.
11.4. In the event of any breach of the rules or of any of the provisions of this constitution
by any person residing on a member's erf or his guests, employees, contractors, or
agents, such breach shall be deemed to have been committed by the member himself;
but without prejudice to the aforegoing, the trustees or manager may take or cause to
be taken such steps against the person actually committing the breach as they may in
their discretion deem fit, in addition to any action which might be taken against the
member concerned.
11.5. Without prejudice to any of the rights the Trustees or the Association may be granted
under this Constitution, should any member fail to pay any amount due by that
Member on due date, then such Member shall pay interest thereon at the publicly
quoted prime rate of interest charged by the Association's bankers from time to time
calculated from the due date for payment until the actual date of payment of such
amount.
12. BUILDING, ARCHITECTURAL AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
12.1. The Association shall be entitled to:
12.1.1. Frame, implement and enforce conditions on members in order to harmonize
the architectural styles and design criteria of and the materials and colours to be
used in all buildings erected within the scheme including any refurbishment,
alterations or additions thereto.
12.1.2. Do such acts as are necessary to accomplish the purposes expressed or implied
herein which acts shall include, inter alia, the examination and endorsement of
the relevant building plans as necessary for any construction, renovation and / or
alterations within the scheme.
12.1.3. Appoint such advisors as are necessary to scrutinize the relevant plans referred
to herein. Impose a scrutiny fee on members for the services as mentioned
herein.
12.2. The provisions of this clause shall be applicable in relation to any of the works to be
undertaken by the Developer prior to the completion of the scheme.
12.3 Where applicable all water network, sewer network, stormwater network and road
network components (downstream of the valve immediately upstream of the bulk
water meter, upstream of the connection to the existing system or intersection point
with the existing road) shall be a private combined system and shall be indicated as
such on all documents and plans.
12.4 All private combined systems (including but not limited to water, sewer, stormwater,
roads, irrigation, etc) shall be the joint and several responsibility (including but not
limited to the administration of the joint account and operation and maintenance of the
system) of the members of the Home Owners Association.